second-gen/beegfs-technology-requirements.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: beegfs-technology-requirements.html
keywords: BeeGFS on NetApp, NetApp Verified Architecture, EF600
summary: "To implement the BeeGFS on NetApp solution, make sure your environment meets the technology requirements."
---

= Technical requirements
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/


[.lead]
To implement the BeeGFS on NetApp solution, ensure your environment meets the technology requirements outlined in this document.

== Hardware requirements
Before you begin, ensure that your hardware meets the following specifications for a single second-generation building block design of the BeeGFS on NetApp solution. The exact components for a particular deployment may vary based on customer requirements.


[options="header" cols="10%,20%,70%"]
|===
|Quantity |Hardware component |Requirements

a|2
a|[[beegfs-file-nodes]]BeeGFS file nodes
a|Each file node should meet or exceed the specifications of the recommended file nodes to achieve expected performance.

*Recommended file node options:*

* *Lenovo ThinkSystem SR665 V3*
** *Processors:* 2x AMD EPYC 9124 16C 3.0 GHz (configured as two NUMA zones).
** *Memory:* 256GB (16x 16GB TruDDR5 4800MHz RDIMM-A)
** *PCIe Expansion:* Four PCIe Gen5 x16 slots (two per NUMA zone)
** *Miscellaneous:*

*** Two drives in RAID 1 for OS (1TB 7.2K SATA or better)
*** 1GbE port for in-band OS management
*** 1GbE BMC with Redfish API for out-of-band server management
*** Dual hot swap power supplies and performance fans

* *Lenovo ThinkSystem SR665*
** *Processors:* 2x AMD EPYC 7343 16C 3.2 GHz (configured as two NUMA zones).
** *Memory:* 256GB (16x 16GB TruDDR4 3200MHz RDIMM-A)
** *PCIe Expansion:* Four PCIe Gen4 x16 slots (two per NUMA zone)
** *Miscellaneous:*

*** Two drives in RAID 1 for OS (1TB 7.2K SATA or better)
*** 1GbE port for in-band OS management
*** 1GbE BMC with Redfish API for out-of-band server management
*** Dual hot swap power supplies and performance fans

|2
|[[eseries-block-nodes]]E-Series block nodes (EF600 array)
a|*Memory:* 256GB (128GB per controller).
*Adapter:* 2-port 200Gb/HDR (NVMe/IB).
*Drives:* Configured to match desired capacity.

|8
|[[infiniband-adapters]]Infiniband Host Card Adapters (for file nodes).
a|Host card adapters will vary based on the server model used for the file node. Recommendations for verified file nodes include:

* *Lenovo ThinkSystem SR665 V3 Server:*
** MCX755106AS-HEAT ConnectX-7 NDR200 QSFP112 2-port PCIe Gen5 x16 InfiniBand Adapter

* *Lenovo ThinkSystem SR665 Server:*
** MCX653106A-HDAT ConnectX-6 HDR QSFP-56 2-port PCIe Gen4 x16 InfiniBand Adapter

|1
|Storage network switch
a|The storage network switch must be capable of 200Gb/s InfiniBand speeds. Verified switch model options include:

* *NVIDIA Quantum QM9700 InfiniBand switch*
* *NVIDIA Quantum MQM8700 InfiniBand switch*

|===

=== Cabling requirements
*Connections directly from the block nodes to the file nodes.*

[options="header" cols="10%,70%,20%"]
|===
| Quantity | Part Number | Length

| 8
| MCP1650-H001E30 (Nvidia Passive Copper cable, QSFP56, 200Gbps)
| 1m
|===

*Connections from file nodes to the storage network switch.*
Select one option from the table below according to your InfiniBand storage switch. +
Lengths will vary according to customer environment.

[options="header" cols="20%,10%,15%,55%"]
|===
| Switch model | Quantity | Cable Type | Part Number

| NVIDIA QM9700
| 4
| Active fiber
| MFA7U10-HXXX (Nvidia Active Fiber cable, OSFP to 2x QSFP56, 400Gb/s to 2 x 200Gb/s)

| NVIDIA QM9700
| 4
| Passive copper
| MCP7Y60-HXXX (Nvidia Passive Copper cable, OSFP to 2x QSFP56, 400Gb/s to 2 x 200Gb/s)

| NVIDIA MQM8700
| 8
| Active fiber
| MFS1S00-HXXX (Nvidia Active Fiber cable, QSFP56, 200Gb/s)

| NVIDIA MQM8700
| 8
| Passive copper
| MCP1650-HXXX (Nvidia Passive Copper cable, QSFP56, 200Gb/s)
|===

== Software requirements

For predictable performance and reliability, releases of the BeeGFS on NetApp solution are tested with specific versions of the software components required to implement the solution.

=== File node requirements

[options="header" cols="20%,80%"]
|===
|Software |Version

a|RedHat Enterprise Linux
a|RedHat 9.3 Server Physical with High Availability (2 socket).

IMPORTANT: File nodes require a valid RedHat Enterprise Linux Server subscription and the Red Hat Enterprise Linux High Availability Add-On.
|Linux Kernel
|5.14.0-362.24.1.el9_3.x86_64
|InfiniBand / RDMA Drivers
|MLNX_OFED_LINUX-23.10-3.2.2.0-LTS
a|HCA Firmware
a|
*ConnectX-7 HCA Firmware*
FW: 28.39.1002 +
PXE: 3.7.0201 +
UEFI: 14.32.0012

*ConnectX-6 HCA Firmware*
FW: 20.31.1014 +
PXE: 3.6.0403 +
UEFI: 14.24.0013
|===

=== EF600 block node requirements

[options="header" cols="20%,80%"]
|===
|Software |Version

|SANtricity OS
|11.80.0
|NVSRAM
|N6000-880834-D08.dlp
|Drive Firmware
|Latest available for the drive models in use.
|===

=== Software deployment requirements
The following table lists the software requirements deployed automatically as part of the Ansible-based BeeGFS deployment.

[options="header" cols="20%,80%"]
|===
|Software |Version

|BeeGFS
|7.4.4
|Corosync
|3.1.5-4
|Pacemaker
|2.1.4-5
|OpenSM
a|opensm-5.17.2 (from MLNX_OFED_LINUX-23.10-3.2.2.0-LTS)
|===

=== Ansible control node requirements
The BeeGFS on NetApp solution is deployed and managed from an Ansible control node. For more information, see the https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/network/getting_started/basic_concepts.html[Ansible documentation^].

The software requirements listed in the following tables are specific to the version of the NetApp BeeGFS Ansible collection listed below.

[options="header" cols="20%,80%"]
|===
|Software |Version

|Ansible
|6.x
When installed through pip: ansible-6.0.0 and ansible-core >= 2.13.0
|Python
|3.9 (or later)
|Additional Python packages
|Cryptography-43.0.0, netaddr-1.3.0, ipaddr-2.2.0
|NetApp E-Series BeeGFS Ansible Collection
|3.2.0
|===

Commit message:

Added cable lengths to requirements and fixed broken links in beegfs-deploy-hardware.

second-gen/beegfs-technology-requirements.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: beegfs-technology-requirements.html
keywords: BeeGFS on NetApp, NetApp Verified Architecture, EF600
summary: "To implement the BeeGFS on NetApp solution, make sure your environment meets the technology requirements."
---

= Technical requirements
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/


[.lead]
To implement the BeeGFS on NetApp solution, ensure your environment meets the technology requirements outlined in this document.

== Hardware requirements
Before you begin, ensure that your hardware meets the following specifications for a single second-generation building block design of the BeeGFS on NetApp solution. The exact components for a particular deployment may vary based on customer requirements.


[options="header" cols="10%,20%,70%"]
|===
|Quantity |Hardware component |Requirements

a|2
a|[[beegfs-file-nodes]]BeeGFS file nodes
a|Each file node should meet or exceed the specifications of the recommended file nodes to achieve expected performance.

*Recommended file node options:*

* *Lenovo ThinkSystem SR665 V3*
** *Processors:* 2x AMD EPYC 9124 16C 3.0 GHz (configured as two NUMA zones).
** *Memory:* 256GB (16x 16GB TruDDR5 4800MHz RDIMM-A)
** *PCIe Expansion:* Four PCIe Gen5 x16 slots (two per NUMA zone)
** *Miscellaneous:*

*** Two drives in RAID 1 for OS (1TB 7.2K SATA or better)
*** 1GbE port for in-band OS management
*** 1GbE BMC with Redfish API for out-of-band server management
*** Dual hot swap power supplies and performance fans

* *Lenovo ThinkSystem SR665*
** *Processors:* 2x AMD EPYC 7343 16C 3.2 GHz (configured as two NUMA zones).
** *Memory:* 256GB (16x 16GB TruDDR4 3200MHz RDIMM-A)
** *PCIe Expansion:* Four PCIe Gen4 x16 slots (two per NUMA zone)
** *Miscellaneous:*

*** Two drives in RAID 1 for OS (1TB 7.2K SATA or better)
*** 1GbE port for in-band OS management
*** 1GbE BMC with Redfish API for out-of-band server management
*** Dual hot swap power supplies and performance fans

|2
|[[eseries-block-nodes]]E-Series block nodes (EF600 array)
a|*Memory:* 256GB (128GB per controller).
*Adapter:* 2-port 200Gb/HDR (NVMe/IB).
*Drives:* Configured to match desired capacity.

|8
|[[infiniband-adapters]]InfiniBand host card adapters (for file nodes).
a|Host card adapters will vary based on the server model used for the file node. Recommendations for verified file nodes include:

* *Lenovo ThinkSystem SR665 V3 Server:*
** MCX755106AS-HEAT ConnectX-7, NDR200, QSFP112, 2-port, PCIe Gen5 x16, InfiniBand Adapter

* *Lenovo ThinkSystem SR665 Server:*
** MCX653106A-HDAT ConnectX-6, HDR, QSFP-56, 2-port, PCIe Gen4 x16, InfiniBand Adapter

|1
|Storage network switch
a|The storage network switch must be capable of 200Gb/s InfiniBand speeds. Recommended switch models include:

* *NVIDIA Quantum QM9700 InfiniBand switch*
* *NVIDIA Quantum MQM8700 InfiniBand switch*

|===

=== Cabling requirements
[block-file-cables]*Connections directly from the block nodes to the file nodes.*

[options="header" cols="10%,70%,20%"]
|===
| Quantity | Part Number | Length

| 8
| MCP1650-H001E30 (Nvidia Passive Copper cable, QSFP56, 200Gbps)
| 1m
|===

[file-switch-cables]*Connections from file nodes to the storage network switch.*
Select one option from the table below according to your InfiniBand storage switch. +
The recommended cable length is 2m, but may vary according to customer environment.

[options="header" cols="20%,10%,15%,55%"]
|===
| Switch model | Quantity | Cable Type | Part Number

| NVIDIA QM9700
| 4
| Active Fiber
| MFA7U10-H002 (Nvidia Active Fiber cable, InfiniBand 400Gb/s to 2x 200Gb/s, OSFP to 2x QSFP56)

| NVIDIA QM9700
| 4
| Passive Copper
| MCP7Y60-H002 (Nvidia Passive Copper cable, InfiniBand 400Gb/s to 2x 200Gb/s, OSFP to 2x QSFP56)

| NVIDIA MQM8700
| 8
| Active Fiber
| MFS1S00-H003E (Nvidia Active Fiber cable, InfiniBand 200Gb/s, QSFP56)

| NVIDIA MQM8700
| 8
| Passive Copper
| MCP1650-H002E26 (Nvidia Passive Copper cable, InfiniBand 200Gb/s, QSFP56)
|===

== Software requirements

For predictable performance and reliability, releases of the BeeGFS on NetApp solution are tested with specific versions of the software components required to implement the solution.

=== File node requirements

[options="header" cols="20%,80%"]
|===
|Software |Version

a|RedHat Enterprise Linux
a|RedHat 9.3 Server Physical with High Availability (2 socket).

IMPORTANT: File nodes require a valid RedHat Enterprise Linux Server subscription and the Red Hat Enterprise Linux High Availability Add-On.
|Linux Kernel
|5.14.0-362.24.1.el9_3.x86_64
|InfiniBand / RDMA Drivers
|MLNX_OFED_LINUX-23.10-3.2.2.0-LTS
a|HCA Firmware
a|
*ConnectX-7 HCA Firmware*
FW: 28.39.1002 +
PXE: 3.7.0201 +
UEFI: 14.32.0012

*ConnectX-6 HCA Firmware*
FW: 20.31.1014 +
PXE: 3.6.0403 +
UEFI: 14.24.0013
|===

=== EF600 block node requirements

[options="header" cols="20%,80%"]
|===
|Software |Version

|SANtricity OS
|11.80.0
|NVSRAM
|N6000-880834-D08.dlp
|Drive Firmware
|Latest available for the drive models in use.
|===

=== Software deployment requirements
The following table lists the software requirements deployed automatically as part of the Ansible-based BeeGFS deployment.

[options="header" cols="20%,80%"]
|===
|Software |Version

|BeeGFS
|7.4.4
|Corosync
|3.1.5-4
|Pacemaker
|2.1.4-5
|OpenSM
a|opensm-5.17.2 (from MLNX_OFED_LINUX-23.10-3.2.2.0-LTS)
|===

=== Ansible control node requirements
The BeeGFS on NetApp solution is deployed and managed from an Ansible control node. For more information, see the https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/network/getting_started/basic_concepts.html[Ansible documentation^].

The software requirements listed in the following tables are specific to the version of the NetApp BeeGFS Ansible collection listed below.

[options="header" cols="20%,80%"]
|===
|Software |Version

|Ansible
|6.x
When installed through pip: ansible-6.0.0 and ansible-core >= 2.13.0
|Python
|3.9 (or later)
|Additional Python packages
|Cryptography-43.0.0, netaddr-1.3.0, ipaddr-2.2.0
|NetApp E-Series BeeGFS Ansible Collection
|3.2.0
|===
