administer/clusters-update-block-node.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: administer/clusters-update-block-node.html
keywords: BeeGFS on NetApp, HA, Cluster, Administration, update, upgrade, SANtricityOS, firmware, drive
summary: "Steps to upgrade the HA cluster's block node components."
---
= Update block node components
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/


[.lead]
Follow these steps to update the HA cluster's block node components.

== Overview 

It is recommended to keep the HA cluster's block nodes (NetApp E-Series storage systems) up to date with the latest firmware. NetApp E-Series storage system components are upgraded using SANtricity OS, NVSRAM, and drive firmware files.

IMPORTANT: While the block node components can be upgraded while the HA cluster is online, it is recommended to schedule a maintenance window for all upgrades.

== Block node upgrade steps

The following steps outline how to update the block node's firmware using the `Netapp_Eseries.Santricity` Ansible collection. Before proceeding, review the link:https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/e-series/upgrade-santricity/overview-upgrade-consider-task.html[Upgrade considerations^] for updating E-Series systems.

NOTE: Upgrade to SANtricity OS 11.80 or later releases is only possible from 11.70.5P1. The storage array must first be upgraded to 11.70.5P1.

. Upgrade the Santricity Ansible collection.
+
From your Ansible control node, validate you are using the latest Santricity Ansible Collection.
+
* For collection upgrades with access to link:https://galaxy.ansible.com/netapp_eseries/beegfs[Ansible Galaxy^], run the following command:
+
[source,console]
----
ansible-galaxy collection install netapp_eseries.santricity --upgrade
----
+
* For offline collection upgrades, download the collection from link:https://galaxy.ansible.com/ui/repo/published/netapp_eseries/santricity/[Ansible Galaxy^] by selecting your desired `Version` and then click `Download tarball`. Transfer the tarball to your Ansible control node and run the following command.
+
[source,console]
----
ansible-galaxy collection install netapp_eseries-santricity-<VERSION>.tar.gz --upgrade
----
+
See link:https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections_guide/collections_installing.html[Installing Collections^] for more information.

. Acquire the latest firmware for your block node and drives.
.. Download the firmware files.
* *SANtricity OS and NVSRAM:* Navigate to the link:https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/eseries-santricityos/downloads-tab[NetApp support site^] and download the latest release of SANtricity OS and NVSRAM for your block node model.
* *Drive Firmware:* Navigate to the link:https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/downloads/firmware/e-series-disk-firmware[E-Series disk firmware site^] and download the latest firmware for each of your block node's drive models.
.. Store the SANtricity OS, NVSRAM, and drive firmware files in your Ansible control node's `<inventory_directory>/packages` directory.

. If necessary, update your cluster's Ansible inventory files to include all block nodes that need to be updated. For general information on configuring your BeeGFS HA inventory, see the link:../custom/architectures-inventory-overview.html[Ansible Inventory Overview^] section.

. Create a new Ansible playbook `update_block_node_playbook.yml` and include the following:
+
....
- hosts: eseries_storage_systems
  gather_facts: false
  any_errors_fatal: true
  collections:
    - netapp_eseries.santricity
  vars:
    eseries_firmware_firmware: "packages/RCB_11.80GA_6000_64cc0ee3.dlp"
    eseries_firmware_nvsram: "packages/N6000-880834-D08.dlp"
    eseries_drive_firmware_firmware_list:
      - "packages/D_MZWLR3T8HCLS-0G5_30604898_NA51_XXXX_000_SIGNED.dlp"
    eseries_drive_firmware_upgrade_drives_online: true

  tasks:
    - name: Configure NetApp E-Series block nodes.
      import_role:
        name: nar_santricity_management
....

. Prior to executing upgrades, ensure the cluster is in an optimal state with each BeeGFS service located on its preferred node. See the link:cluster-examine-state.html[Examine the state of the cluster^] section for more information.

. Place the cluster in maintenance mode. See the link:clusters-maintenance-mode.html[Place the cluster in maintenance mode^] section for more information.

. To start the upgrades, execute the following command from your Ansible control node:
+
----
ansible-playbook -i inventory.yml update_block_node_playbook.yml
----

. After the playbook completes, verify the block nodes are in optimal states.

. Move the cluster out of maintenance mode and validate the cluster is in an optimal state.

Commit message:

Revised the block-node upgrade process.

administer/clusters-update-block-node.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: administer/clusters-update-block-node.html
keywords: BeeGFS on NetApp, HA, Cluster, Administration, update, upgrade, SANtricityOS, firmware, drive
summary: "Steps to upgrade the HA cluster's block node components."
---
= Update block node components
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/


[.lead]
Follow these steps to update the HA cluster's block node components.

== Overview 

Keeping your HA cluster's block nodes (NetApp E-Series storage systems) up-to-date with the latest firmware ensures optimal performance and improved security. Firmware updates for NetApp E-Series storage systems are applied using SANtricity OS, NVSRAM, and drive firmware files.

IMPORTANT: While the storage system's components can be upgraded with the HA cluster online, it is recommended to place the cluster into maintenance mode for all upgrades.

== Block node upgrade steps

The following steps outline how to update the block node's firmware using the `Netapp_Eseries.Santricity` Ansible collection. Before proceeding, review the link:https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/e-series/upgrade-santricity/overview-upgrade-consider-task.html[Upgrade considerations^] for updating E-Series systems.

NOTE: Upgrading to SANtricity OS 11.80 or later releases is only possible from 11.70.5P1. The storage array must first be upgraded to 11.70.5P1 before applying further upgrades.

. Validate your Ansible control node is using the latest Santricity Ansible Collection.
+
* For collection upgrades with access to link:https://galaxy.ansible.com/netapp_eseries/beegfs[Ansible Galaxy^], run the following command:
+
[source,console]
----
ansible-galaxy collection install netapp_eseries.santricity --upgrade
----
+
* For offline upgrades, download the collection tarball from link:https://galaxy.ansible.com/ui/repo/published/netapp_eseries/santricity/[Ansible Galaxy^], transfer it to your control node, and execute:
+
[source,console]
----
ansible-galaxy collection install netapp_eseries-santricity-<VERSION>.tar.gz --upgrade
----
+
See link:https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections_guide/collections_installing.html[Installing Collections^] for more information.

. Obtain the latest firmware for your block node and drives.
.. Download the firmware files.
* *SANtricity OS and NVSRAM:* Navigate to the link:https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/eseries-santricityos/downloads-tab[NetApp support site^] and download the latest release of SANtricity OS and NVSRAM for your block node model.
* *Drive Firmware:* Navigate to the link:https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/downloads/firmware/e-series-disk-firmware[E-Series disk firmware site^] and download the latest firmware for each of your block node's drive models.
.. Store the SANtricity OS, NVSRAM, and drive firmware files in your Ansible control node's `<inventory_directory>/packages` directory.


. If necessary, update your cluster's Ansible inventory files to include all block nodes requiring updates. For guidance, see the link:../custom/architectures-inventory-overview.html[Ansible Inventory Overview^] section.

. Ensure the cluster is in an optimal state and each BeeGFS service is on its preferred node. Refer to link:cluster-examine-state.html[Examine the state of the cluster^] for details.

. Place the cluster in maintenance mode following the instructions in link:clusters-maintenance-mode.html[Place the cluster in maintenance mode^].

. Create a new Ansible playbook `update_block_node_playbook.yml` with the following content:
+
....
- hosts: eseries_storage_systems
  gather_facts: false
  any_errors_fatal: true
  collections:
    - netapp_eseries.santricity
  vars:
    eseries_firmware_firmware: "packages/RCB_11.80GA_6000_64cc0ee3.dlp"
    eseries_firmware_nvsram: "packages/N6000-880834-D08.dlp"
    eseries_drive_firmware_firmware_list:
      - "packages/D_MZWLR3T8HCLS-0G5_30604898_NA51_XXXX_000_SIGNED.dlp"
    eseries_drive_firmware_upgrade_drives_online: true

  tasks:
    - name: Configure NetApp E-Series block nodes.
      import_role:
        name: nar_santricity_management
....

. To start the updates, execute the following command from your Ansible control node:
+
----
ansible-playbook -i inventory.yml update_block_node_playbook.yml
----

. After the playbook completes, verify each block node is in an optimal state.

. Move the cluster out of maintenance mode and validate the cluster is in an optimal state.
