get-started/beegfs-terms.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: beegfs-terms.html
keywords: BeeGFS on NetApp, NetApp Verified Architecture, EF600
summary: "Terms and concepts that apply to BeeGFS on NetApp solution."
---

= Terms and concepts
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
The following terms and concepts apply to the BeeGFS on NetApp solution.


[cols="25h,~",options="header"]
|===
| Term | Description
a|
AI
a|
Artificial Intelligence.
a|
Ansible Inventory
a|
Directory structure containing YAML files that are used to describe the desired BeeGFS HA cluster.
a|
BMC
a|
Baseboard management controller. Sometimes referred to as a service processor.
a|
block nodes
a|
Storage systems.
a|
clients
a|
Server nodes.
a|
DL
a|
Deep Learning.
a|
file nodes
a|
BeeGFS file servers.
a|
HA
a|
High Availability.
a|
HIC
a|
Host Interface Card.
a|HPC
a|
High-Performance Computing.
a|
HPC-style workloads
a|
HPC-style workloads are typically characterized by multiple compute nodes or GPUs all needing to access the same dataset in parallel to facilitate a distributed compute or training job. These datasets are often comprised of large files that should be striped across multiple physical storage nodes to eliminate the traditional hardware bottlenecks that would prevent concurrent access to a single file.
a|
ML
a|
Machine Learning.
a|
NLP
a|
Natural Language Processing.
a|
NLU
a|
Natural Language Understanding.
a|
NVA
a|
The NetApp Verified Architecture (NVA) program provides reference configurations and sizing guidance for specific workloads and use cases. These solutions are thoroughly tested, and are designed to minimize deployment risks and to accelerate time to market.

|===

Commit message:

Add sections on Custom Architectures and Cluster Administration (#6)
* Rework sidebar and add a custom architectures section

* Define custom arch overview and sidebar layout

* Fill out HW setup and cabling doc and add new sidebar entries

* Add section to setup file and block nodes. Tweak install/cable steps. Fix link to mlxup utility.

* Fix permlink and add section to setup an Ansible control node

* Add inventor overview section and make links open in a new tab

* Add a section on determining network configuration

* Add section on configuring file nodes

* Update links to open in a new tab/window

* Add section on specifying configuration for individual block nodes

* Add section on common file node configuration

* Add a section on defining common block node configuration

* Rework determine network config section into a more general plan FS section

* Add sections for configuring BeeGFS services

* Add section on how to create the inventory.yml file

* Expand Ansible control node section and fix asciidoc syntax issue

* Add sections introducing and creating the Ansible playbook

* Add section on setting up BeeGFS clients

* Add section on verifying the file system deployment and remove sections on reconfiguring and expanding the FS from the sidebar to be added in a new administer section

* Update documentation to reflect new connAuthFile functionality

* Ensure links to specific areas in a GitHub hosted file are pinned to a specific release

* Add section on cluster administration

* Begin building out sections on BeeGFS cluster administration

* Add sections on failover, maintenance mode, and stopping and starting the cluster

* Add sections on replacing file nodes and adjusting the cluster size

* Tweak summary and lead on multiple pages for consistency

* Add troubleshooting section

get-started/beegfs-terms.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: beegfs-terms.html
keywords: BeeGFS on NetApp, NetApp Verified Architecture, EF600
summary: "Terms and concepts that apply to BeeGFS on NetApp solution."
---
= Terms and concepts
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
The following terms and concepts apply to the BeeGFS on NetApp solution.

TIP: See the link:administer-clusters-overview.html[Administer BeeGFS clusters] section for additional details on terms and concepts specific to interacting with BeeGFS high availability (HA) clusters.

[cols="25h,~",options="header"]
|===
| Term | Description
a|
AI
a|
Artificial Intelligence.
a|
Ansible Inventory
a|
Directory structure containing YAML files that are used to describe the desired BeeGFS HA cluster.
a|
BMC
a|
Baseboard management controller. Sometimes referred to as a service processor.
a|
block nodes
a|
Storage systems.
a|
clients
a|
Nodes in the HPC cluster running applications that need to utilize the file system. Sometimes also referred to as compute or GPU nodes.
a|
DL
a|
Deep Learning.
a|
file nodes
a|
BeeGFS file servers.
a|
HA
a|
High Availability.
a|
HIC
a|
Host Interface Card.
a|HPC
a|
High-Performance Computing.
a|
HPC-style workloads
a|
HPC-style workloads are typically characterized by multiple compute nodes or GPUs all needing to access the same dataset in parallel to facilitate a distributed compute or training job. These datasets are often comprised of large files that should be striped across multiple physical storage nodes to eliminate the traditional hardware bottlenecks that would prevent concurrent access to a single file.
a|
ML
a|
Machine Learning.
a|
NLP
a|
Natural Language Processing.
a|
NLU
a|
Natural Language Understanding.
a|
NVA
a|
The NetApp Verified Architecture (NVA) program provides reference configurations and sizing guidance for specific workloads and use cases. These solutions are thoroughly tested, and are designed to minimize deployment risks and to accelerate time to market.
a| 
storage network / client network
a|
Network used for clients to communicate to the BeeGFS file system. This is often the same network used for parallel Message Passing Interface (MPI) and other application communication between HPC cluster nodes.
|===
